Carnegie Mellon University!?
============================
categories: [personal]
posted: 2009-04-18



In late March, I was completely thrilled to hear that the [Carnegie
Mellon University][] [Human Computer Interaction Institute][] accepted
me into their [Master][]'s program! In addition to admission, they
offered a very juicy scholarship to spend part of the time on the
beautiful island of [Madeira][]. CMU was my most far fetched reach
school, so I attribute this wonderful fortune to a clerical error made
by the admission committee. 

In addition to studying at one of the best
universities in the world, traveling to Europe, and relaxing on the
beach, here are a couple of reasons why my inner geek can't contain his
excitement, try as he might. These incredible courses are offered at CMU
in September 2009:

### Making Things Interactive:

In this hands-on design-build class you will learn the skills to embed
sensors and actuators (light, sound, touch, motion, etc.) into everyday
things (and places etc.) and to program their interactive behavior using
a microcontroller. Through weekly exercises and a term project the class
will introduce basic analog electronics and microcontroller programming,
as well as exploration into using kinetics and materials to make the
things you design perform. Emphasis will be on creating innovative
experiences using simple robotic technologies. The graduate edition of
this course will require additional work including a paper that can be
submitted to a peer-reviewed interaction design conference such as CHI,
UIST, or TEI.Students from all disciplines are welcome: but please note
that the class demands that you master technical material. Experience in
at least one of: programming, electronics, or physical fabrication is
strongly recommended.

### Principles of Human-Robot Interaction:

This course focuses on the emerging field of human-robot interaction,
bringing together research and application of methodology from robotics,
human factors, human-computer interaction, interaction design, cognitive
psychology, education and other fields to enable robots to have more
natural and more rewarding interactions with humans throughout their
spheres of functioning. This course is a combination of state-of-art
reading and discussions, focused team exercises and problem-solving
sessions in human-robot interaction, and a special team project
resulting in the implementation of a human-robot interaction system.

  [Carnegie Mellon University]: http://www.cmu.edu/index.shtml
  [Human Computer Interaction Institute]: http://www.hcii.cmu.edu/
  [Master]: http://www.hcii.cmu.edu/masters-program
  [Madeira]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Madeira

