jQuery Mobile Hacker News
=========================
categories: [web]
posted: 2010-11-17
snip: My first jQuery Mobile application (using Alpha 1). I found a few bugs and contributed
  a couple of plugins.



I'm about to embark on a 3-week heads-down coding spree to finish off
the final project of my masters. I convinced my team and our clients
that it's a good idea to use jQuery Mobile instead of native Android to
implement our data-centric application, so I've been playing with it
quite a bit over the last week. jQM is still in Alpha 2, so to get my
feet wet, I decided to write a demo app before starting the final
project. After stumbling over a few kinks and rough edges, a weekend of
coding yielded a [mobile Hacker News client][].

![image][]

## Loading JavaScript

jQuery Mobile is firmly rooted in the progressive enhancement philosophy
of web application development. In practice, this means that the simple
markup that you write in it is processed by the framework's JavaScript
and transformed into much more complex and JS-enhanced markup. In
particular, jQM rewrites `<a href="page.html"></a>` into an element that
loads the contents of the page via an AJAX request. Unfortunately, CSS
and JavaScript referenced by `page.html` is not loaded. 

To work around this, I've been using a makeshift JS loader which latches
on to the jQM pageshow event so that whenever an HTML page loads, the
corresponding JavaScript file also loads. To prevent the JS loader from
loading already-loaded JavaScript whenever a page is reloaded, it
employs a cache. Still, the JS needs to be triggered when the page is
loaded, so there's a way to bind a page load to a function. Here's some
sample usage of the ScriptCache:

    // Create a new ScriptCache in the global scope
    var scriptCache = new ScriptCache();
    // Now when page.html loads, page.js will load
     
    // Also, each page can register with the scriptCache
    scriptCache.onPageLoad('page.html', pageInitFunction);
     
    // Each page.js looks like this:
    (function() {
      var init = function() {...};
     
      // Whenever this page is loaded, call init
      scriptCache.onPageLoad('page.html', init);
      // Call init the first time it's loaded too
      init();
    })();


This approach was inspired by a discussion on the [jQuery Forum][], and
I really hope that there will be a better answer from readers or the jQM
developers. The [ScriptCache loader is on github][].

## Passing Parameters

Another issue I came across was parameter passing between pages. The jQM
Hacker News client needs to pass item IDs from the main page listing to
item pages. Unfortunately jQuery Mobile seems to have no provision for
doing this. A couple approaches come to mind. One way is through a
global variable parameter passing convention (possible since jQuery
pages aren't navigated to, but loaded with AJAX). The way I'm using is
through GET parameters after the hash. Thus the URL to an item page
looks like this: http://example.com/index.html\#item.html?id=82831.
However, the pageshow event fires *just slightly* before the
window.location is updated with the requested URL. I'm currently working
around this with a `setTimeout`, but this is clearly unacceptable. This
issue is being [discussed on github][]. 

There's also an issue passing parameters via the jQM changePage call:
`$.mobile.changePage('page.html?key=value');`. The parameters are simply
ignored. Thus I was forced to use `window.location.href +=
'#page.html?key=value';`, which only works if your window.location.href
is the main application page.

## Hacker News

Using the workarounds outlined above, I wrote an application that lets
you read and post to [Hacker News][], a startup-oriented online
community run by [Y Combinator][]. It uses the [third party HN API][]
provided by [@ronnieroller][], who has been very responsive on twitter
(thanks!). For fetching posts and comments, the application relies on
the JSONP methods of this API. It doesn't currently permit authenticated
posting and voting on HN. 

For commenting and submitting links, I embed actual Hacker News post
pages in an iframe, working around the lack of support and avoiding
trust issues. Unfortunately the [Android browser has a bug][] which
forces iframes to resize to the width of their contained textarea if one
exists in the embedded page. This causes the width of the page to grow
which forces jQuery Mobile to relayout. The reference implementation
(iOS) does not suffer from this issue. 

I'd be glad to get your feedback on this app. If you want to read the
code or fork the project, it's available [on github][]. 

I've packed this application with PhoneGap, and currently use it as the
HN reader on my phone. Existing HN applications on Android don't provide
share intent handlers (to share from the browser or your RSS reader).
This app provides share intent handling through WebIntents, an Android
PhoneGap plugin that I've been working on. More on that next post, so
stay tuned!

  [image]: /media/images/blog/2010/hackernews.png
  [mobile Hacker News client]: /x/hackernews/
  [jQuery Forum]: http://forum.jquery.com/topic/links-don-t-load-scripts
  [ScriptCache loader is on github]: https://github.com/borismus/jQuery-Mobile-Hacker-News/blob/master/assets/www/scriptcache.js
  [discussed on github]: https://github.com/jquery/jquery-mobile/issues#issue/450/comment/543394
  [Hacker News]: http://news.ycombinator.com
  [Y Combinator]: http://ycombinator.com
  [third party HN API]: http://api.ihackernews.com
  [@ronnieroller]: http://twitter.com/ronnieroller
  [Android browser has a bug]: http://code.google.com/p/android/issues/detail?id=12558
  [on github]: https://github.com/borismus/jQuery-Mobile-Hacker-News/tree/master/assets/www/

