SXSW LEGO MINDSTORMS Hackathon
==============================
categories: [conference, physical]
posted: 2011-03-17
snip: My excellent adventures organizing a hackathon-party at South by Southwest.



I just returned to San Francisco after having a blast at my second SXSW.
Last time I attended, two years ago, I spent most of my time attending
sessions and networking. This year I was mostly on the other side:
preparing talks, staffing booths and organizing events. This year's
highlight was definitely the LEGO MINDSTORMS hackathon, held as part of
[The League of Extraordinary Hackers][] event put on by Google and
others, that I helped Chris Messina organize. We modeled the event after
[Breadpig's Hack Club][], but scaled it up. The event was so awesome
that here I am blogging about it! 

[![hackathon image][img-small]][img-large]

At 7pm, 12 teams of 3-6 people began building MINDSTORMS sumo robots
which would then compete in a double elimination tournament. We had
mixed skill levels, from complete novices to people working at National
Instruments, the company that builds the LEGO MINDSTORMS software. Teams
were given 4 hours to build their robots out of two complete NXT sets
and additional LEGO parts. During battle, their autonomous robots were
placed back to back, starting with a 180 degree turn before trying to
push each other out of the ring. The battles started at 11:30pm, and
went on for about an hour.

<iframe title="YouTube video player" width="600" height="480"
  src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/-oELrCuDrrE" frameborder="0"
  allowfullscreen></iframe>

We had a great turnout of spectators and builders on the third floor of
the [Speakeasy][]. The crowd was engaged the whole time, thanks to the
lively narration of MC [@tielure][], which is quite surprising, given
the amount of party hopping that usually ensues during SXSW. Here's the
final round (Tiger Blood vs. Beam Me Up):

<iframe title="YouTube video player" width="600" height="480"
  src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/3EJD6M0zDbw" frameborder="0"
  allowfullscreen></iframe>

At the end of the day, we made hundreds of geeks happy, and donated
something on the order of $15,000 of LEGOs to charity. I got to work
with tons of awesome people, including [@chrismessina][], [@kcpike][],
[@StevenCanvin][], [@Chrysaora][] and many others. The event even got
some good press on [mashable][]. 

My only regret is not having my real camera with me, so if you have high
quality footage of the event that I haven't included in this post,
please let me know. Looking forward to next time!

  [The League of Extraordinary Hackers]: http://extraordinary-hackers.appspot.com/hackathon.html
  [Breadpig's Hack Club]: http://breadpig.com/2011/01/18/hack-club-1-total-success/
  [img-small]: hackathon-small.jpg
  [img-large]: hackathon.jpg
  [Speakeasy]: http://www.speakeasyaustin.com/
  [@tielure]: http://twitter.com/tielure
  [@chrismessina]: http://twitter.com/chrismessina
  [@kcpike]: http://twitter.com/kcpike
  [@StevenCanvin]: http://twitter.com/StevenCanvin
  [@Chrysaora]: http://twitter.com/Chrysaora
  [mashable]: http://mashable.com/2011/03/13/league-of-extraordinary-hackers/

