Soundsourcing: The Sound of the Crowd
=====================================
categories: [social, music, web]
posted: 2011-02-20
snip: An experiment in which Mechanical Turkers generated sound effects on demand.



After having dabbled in crowdsourcing research, I wanted to find a
compelling MTurk application around which to build a real service that
would simultaneously be useful, involve creative tasks, and be fun
enough to capture my attention. Generating sound effects seemed to fit
the bill. Creating sounds through imitation or collecting is creative,
fun and (ahem, quality aside) easy due to the ubiquity of microphones.
Enter experimental service [soundsourcing.com][]. 

First I had to verify some basic questions: Would turkers be willing to
create and submit sound effects? Would their output be sufficiently good
for someone to use in practice? Would it be possible to have some
quality control process to weed out the blatantly bad submissions?
Jumping into experimentation, I asked workers to imitate or record a cow
mooing, paying ten cents for their efforts. After 3 days I had a set of
moos:

<object height="285" width="100%"><param name="movie"
  value="http://player.soundcloud.com/player.swf?url=http%3A%2F%2Fapi.soundcloud.com%2Fplaylists%2F527826&amp;show_comments=false&amp;auto_play=false&amp;show_playcount=true&amp;show_artwork=true&amp;color=ff7700"></param><param
  name="allowscriptaccess" value="always"></param> <embed
  allowscriptaccess="always" height="285"
  src="http://player.soundcloud.com/player.swf?url=http%3A%2F%2Fapi.soundcloud.com%2Fplaylists%2F527826&amp;show_comments=false&amp;auto_play=false&amp;show_playcount=true&amp;show_artwork=true&amp;color=ff7700"
  type="application/x-shockwave-flash" width="100%"></embed></object>

Taking it up a notch, I requested the more obscure sound of a 
[train leaving the station][]. There were many excellent submissions in
the mix, although I suspect that many of them were not created by the
workers but found online despite my empty threat to verify their
originality and reject. My favorite is probably this train, improvised
on harmonica: 

<object height="81" width="100%"><param name="movie" value="http://player.soundcloud.com/player.swf?url=http%3A%2F%2Fapi.soundcloud.com%2Ftracks%2F9563151"></param><param name="allowscriptaccess" value="always"></param> <embed allowscriptaccess="always" height="81" src="http://player.soundcloud.com/player.swf?url=http%3A%2F%2Fapi.soundcloud.com%2Ftracks%2F9563151" type="application/x-shockwave-flash" width="100%"></embed></object>

As usual, the hard problem with crowdsourcing is quality control. I
approach this problem with a rating step after the sound samples have
been submitted, in which turkers select their top three samples from the
sound set (shuffled in random order to avoid [order bias][]). Each
instance of such a task can be done cheaply (I tried $0.05), so ordering
the whole set in quality becomes easy. In the future I'd like to write
some JS to verify that the turker in fact listened to all of the
samples. Below is the rating form presented to MTurk users:

![image][] 

When all of the pieces came together and some time remained, I built
[soundsourcing.com][] around this concept. I implemented the service
using [Django][] and [Boto][], reusing many concepts from the
[CrowdForge][] framework. The premise of the service is that people
seeking very specific sound effects that they cannot find on existing
sound effects sites can use soundsourcing to get their custom sounds
built to order. The basic flow of HITs on MTurk looks like this:

![image][1] 

Since the cow and train experiments, I have collected [lion roars][] and
sword slashes (submissions are in progress at the time of writing).
Please check out [the site][soundsourcing.com], request a sound sample
and submit some feedback below. Mechanical Turkers, let's make some
noise!!

  [soundsourcing.com]: http://soundsourcing.com
  [train leaving the station]: http://soundcloud.com/borismus/sets/turkish-trains-leaving-the-station/
  [order bias]: http://www.jstor.org/pss/3151704
  [image]: /media/images/blog/2011/turk-rate.png
  [Django]: http://www.djangoproject.com/
  [Boto]: http://code.google.com/p/boto/
  [CrowdForge]: /crowdforge
  [1]: /media/images/blog/2011/soundsourcing.jpg
  [lion roars]: http://soundsourcing.com/set/a-lion-roaring/

