Ubiquitous Drums
================
categories: [physical]
posted: 2009-11-18
snip: Is that a portable drum kit in your pants or are you just happy to see me?




Look at the riders of any city bus. Many of them are plugged into their music
players, tapping away to the beat. I propose to augment our natural love of
rhythm into a ubiquitous wearable drum system. The target user of this system
isn’t only the typical rhythm loving bus rider, but also an amateur drummer.
Drum kits are heavy and unwieldy, making them difficult to transport to a jam
session. The proposed system can also act as a stand-in for a full drum-kit for
quick, impromptu jamming.

I took a pair of jeans and imbued them with two [force-sensitive resistors][],
one on each knee. The left pocket houses a sparkfun box containing an arduino
and a breadboard. Wires run through the pant legs to connect the pads to the
box. Wiring the pants was surprisingly easy, since as I discovered, electric
tape easily adheres to denim.

<iframe title="YouTube video player" width="600" height="368"
  src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/HjWx9fp-8oU" frameborder="0"
  allowfullscreen></iframe>

The two FSRs are hooked into pull-down switches which connect to analog ports
of the Arduino. Every time a pad is hit, Arduino sends the pad
ID and the force of the impact through the serial port. A python program running on my machine
listens on the serial port and synthesizes sounds corresponding to the data
using [pyserial][] and [pygame][] respectively.

    import pygame, sys, serial

    # initialize the pygame mixer
    pygame.mixer.init(frequency=22050, size=-16, channels=2, buffer=256)

    # map positions to sounds
    samples = {
        'lknee': pygame.mixer.Sound('media/hihat-open.aif'),    
        #...
    }

    # initialize serial port
    s = serial.Serial('/dev/tty.usbserial-A6008ea9', 9600)

    while 1:
        # read from the serial port
        line = s.readline().strip()
        # ...
        sample = samples[pad_id]
        sample.play()

    if __name__ == '__main__':
        pass

This first prototype of Drum Pants is intentionally crude. Aside from
increasing this system’s production value, there are a number of limitations
that should be addressed. The current prototype requires a computer to
synthesize sounds, which greatly hinders portability. By retrofitting the
Arduino with a [wifi shield][], the system could communicate with any
wifi-capable synthesizer, such as an Android phone.

Another issue with this system is that it’s built entirely into a pair of
pants. This makes putting drum pads into other items of clothing impossible. To
address this problem, the pads could wirelessly communicate to the Arduino
device. In this case, the pads would be self-contained transmitters that could
be placed anywhere. This opens up a wide variety of applications, such as
placing the pad onto a pair of shoes to simulate a kick or hi-hat pedal. Do you
like this idea? Please give me feedback below!

**Update:** Do you want to build your own drum pants? Check out this
[instructable][]!

**Update 2:** Accepted as a CHI 2010 WIP. Many thanks to [Mark Gross][]! 
[Extended abstract][] now available.

  [force-sensitive resistors]: http://www.sparkfun.com/commerce/product_info.php?products_id=9376
  [this Arduino sketch]: http://www.borismus.com/wp-content/uploads/2009/11/drum.pde
  [pyserial]: http://pyserial.sourceforge.net/
  [pygame]: http://www.pygame.org/news.html
  [wifi shield]: http://asynclabs.com/wiki/index.php?title=WiShield_1.0
  [instructable]: http://www.instructables.com/id/Drum-Wear-drums-in-your-clothing/
  [Mark Gross]: http://code.arc.cmu.edu/~mdg/
  [Extended abstract]: /media/images/blog/2009/wip462-smus.pdf

